How many times have you read in our publications?
Experiences whereby someone is praying to be guided by God,
while at the same time one of our Kingdom Proclaimers is praying to be directed
to someone with whom they can share Jehovah's-inspired wisdom.
What happens?
South Africa, a sister begins her auxiliary pioneer service,
praying for Jehovah to help her find someone
with whom she can study the Bible.
The territory includes the home of a person
who had been very rude to her in the past.
Courageously, she knocks on the door anyway
and discovers that new tenants live there,
a mother and daughter who had been praying for someone
to help them understand the Bible.
Soon, all three were out in service together.
The angels certainly know how to work these things out.
Is it reasonable then to believe
that the angels could also play a role in ensuring
that baptized Christians get the information that they need
either to receive or to give?
As our text indicates, Jehovah guides us with his advice.
How does that work?
Well, often we find ourselves in need of wisdom.
We pray to Jehovah for direction.
We search the Bible.
We search our Christian publications.
And at times, we ask people who are already wise for their advice.
After all, insight volume two under wisdom refers to this
as a superior and time-saving way to wisdom.
Superior, that is, to experiencing punishment
or watching other people go through it.
The insight book then cites Proverbs 22, 17.
Let's read that together.
Proverbs chapter 22, verse 17,
which says, Incline your ear and listen to the words of the wise
in order to apply your heart to my knowledge.
Who is the my in the expression my knowledge?
Well, Jehovah is speaking to us through the pages of his word,
indicating that if we listen to counsel from wise people,
we can, in fact, detect the wisdom of Jehovah.
Moreover, Psalm 328 gives us this promise.
I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.
Now, does that mean that if we pray intensely,
Jehovah will give us tailor-made counsel designed to fit
our individual circumstances,
that somehow through either an encouraging visit
by a mature Christian, a talk at one of the meetings
or some information in one of our publications,
we will find exactly what we need.
Yes, prayers are often answered in that exact way.
Now, with regard to elders' meetings,
our brothers are trained to recognize that Christ,
by means of His Holy Spirit, can influence any elder,
even the youngest, most reticent elder on the body,
to make an expression that results in wise decisions.
Decisions that may not have been reached
if each elder had been consulted individually.
But now, does that mean that every expression
made by an elder automatically reflects the knowledge of God?
We have to remember that just as one who desires wisdom
has a responsibility to seek it,
so likewise, one who gives advice has a responsibility
to base his comments on Jehovah's inspired word.
Sometimes, emotion may get the better of an advisor.
How can we tell whether that is taking place?
Turn with me, please, to 1 Samuel 23.
1 Samuel 23.
How many times did King David receive advice
from the likes of God, Nathan, Abigail, Abishai, others?
How did David respond to it?
First, please note that David had the admirable habit
of inquiring of Jehovah before making decisions.
Look at what it says here in chapter 23 for Samuel 23.2.
So, David inquired of Jehovah.
Should I go and strike down these Philistines?
Jehovah said to David, go, strike down the Philistines
and rescue Kyla.
But the men of David said to him, look, we are afraid.
Well, here in Judah, how much more so if we go to Kyla
against the battle line of the Philistines?
So, David inquired once again of Jehovah
and many other texts show that this was David's practice.
Of course, there were also notable occasions
when David did not first inquire of Jehovah,
such as when he determined to destroy Nable
and every male in his household as reported in chapter 25.
But David recognized, in the words of Abigail,
the knowledge of Jehovah.
Notice what he said at first Samuel 25, 32 and 33.
At this, David said to Abigail,
praise Jehovah the God of Israel
who sent you this day to meet me and blessed be your good sense.
May you be blessed for restraining me this day
from incurring blood guilt
and from taking revenge with my own hands.
Abigail brought Bible principles back to David's mind
and he could see that this was from Jehovah.
And yet there were other times when David's advisors
were pointing to what they considered to be proof
of Jehovah's divine intervention,
but David did not buy into it.
Notice what it says at first Samuel chapter 24.
And verse 4.
David's man said to him,
this is the day on which Jehovah is saying to you,
look, I am giving your enemy into your hand
and you can do to him whatever seems good to you.
Now, how would David respond to that?
Would he say, you're right.
Saul tried to kill me three times.
He's been hunting me for years.
He's obviously lost Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
Isn't that why Samuel anointed me?
And now look, here he is by himself vulnerable
in our very cave.
When does that ever happen?
Clearly, Jehovah has given me this opportunity
to seize the kingship.
David did not draw that conclusion.
Why not?
We get a clue in first Samuel chapter 26.
Notice once again the counsel he receives in verse 8.
Was it a coincidence that David and his men now find Saul
and his army of 3,000 men totally incapacitated
by deep sleep?
When does that ever happen?
Clearly, that was a gift from God.
That was what a bish I thought.
And so he said in verse 8.
Today, God has surrendered your enemy into your hand.
And now please let me pin him to the ground
with the Spirit just once.
And I will not need to do it twice.
Was that really counsel from God?
Or just well-intentioned advice driven by emotion?
David rejected it.
Why?
Was he thinking about Bible principles?
Was he thinking about Leviticus chapter 19 verse 18?
You must not take revenge?
Likely, as we read what it says in verses 10 and 11,
notice what it says.
As shortly as Jehovah is living,
Jehovah himself will strike him down.
Or his day will come and he will die.
Or he will go down into battle and perish.
It is unthinkable from Jehovah's standpoint for me
to lift my hand against the anointed of Jehovah.
David loved Jehovah's word.
He tried to consider each situation from Jehovah's standpoint.
He sought to discern the difference between God's knowledge
and human reasoning.
Today we too may face a difficult situation, a decision.
Someone might even encourage us to take action
without fully considering God's will.
We need to pray for Jehovah to direct our hearts to his knowledge,
not only that we may receive it, but even that we might convey it
when appropriate.
Sometimes you may be the one who needs to give the word of guidance
in choir of Jehovah.
Make sure your counsel is in harmony with his word.
If it is, and if the recipient also has a prayerful attitude,
then he too may feel as in the words of today's inspired text writer
that Jehovah is guiding us with his advice.